the Hamas run Health Ministry says more
than 38,1 100 people have been killed
during the war in Gaza this as the
conflict sparked by Hamas LED Terror
attacks in October enters its 10th month
new diplomatic efforts are once again
raising hopes of a truce as the violence
continues though the ministry said
Saturday that at least 16 people were
killed by an Israeli strike on a un run
School in the central refugee camp of
newat
screams and smoke filled the air moments
after Israel's
attack survivors scrambled to search
through the wreckage at the school in
noat around 7,000 people were estimated
to be Sheltering in the
area we ran to the targeted area we saw
bodies of children in pieces
this is a playground there is a
trampoline here swing sets and vendors
civilians were killed this is a United
Nation school it's supposed to be safe
and should not be
targeted every strike we find bodies
blown to pieces I swear to God I took
out children with my own
hands the wounded were rushed to
hospital but with Health Services on the
brink of collapse children were treated
in busy Cor
Israel's military said it had been
targeting terrorists in the
attack Hamas denied its Fighters were
there meanwhile in t Aviv thousands of
protesters once again demanded Israel's
government accept a deal to bring back
hostages and reach a
ceasefire Hamas has reportedly softened
position on a draft agreement
potentially opening negotiations after
weeks of
Deadlock for the first time in many
months we feel there is a spark of hope
for the first time we all feel that we
are closer than ever to getting our
loved ones
back this is an opportunity that cannot
be missed our message to the government
is very simple there is a deal on the
table take
there hasn't been a pause in fighting in
Gaza since a onewe truce in November
officials involved in ceasefire
negotiations say real progress has been
made in recent days but War there's
still lots of work ahead in reaching a
binding
agreement DW senior International
correspondent F faar joins us now from
Jerusalem um what is Israel saying about
this deadly Gaza strike on that un run
School
well Israel claims that that area around
that school was allegedly used by Hammer
militants to carry out their attacks
while hamus militants again claim that
allegedly their soldiers were not even
nearby claims and counter claims very
similar ones we have heard during the
past nine months as the war in Gaza has
entered it's 10 months today and the
question really is for the people on the
ground for the hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians who have been displaced
again and again what's next is their way
out from this just for this particular
air strike there on that school we're
hearing from the Palestinian Health
Ministry that at least 16 people have
been killed many others have been
reportedly injured but where do these
people go who have been injured they are
no operating or only very regimentally
very partially operating hospitals at
this point in Gaza in fact people the
thousands who've been seeking shelter in
their particular School these are people
who have been displaced over and over
again and some of them probably have
considered themselves even lucky to be
inside the building as so many of the
Palestinians right now are trying to
somehow survive in tents if they even
have a tent or look for a place where
they can sleep outside so that situation
on the ground is growing disastrous by
the day while once again people are
asking is there an end to these
hostilities at all and when and speaking
of a way out of this uh about those
ongoing ceasefire negotiations any
reason to be optimistic
there's definitely some cautious
optimism I would say the very fact that
the Diplomatic efforts have been revived
during the past week and uh the very
fact that obviously nobody expects hus
militans in Israeli officials to be
sitting at one table but the fact that
Qatar that's playing really a key role
here in trying to mediate between these
parties to make sure that the US
proposed ceasefire plan is being put in
action is leading to some cautious
optimism I would like to revive I would
like to remind the viewers with regard
to that ceasefire proposal by the US
that's been put forward in May that in
it entails not only an end to
hostilities and the release of hostages
allegedly about 120 hostages are still
believed to be in Gaza but also the
withdrawal of Israeli troops and
ultimately the rebuilding of Gaza that's
a long road ahead and at this point the
phase that currently both Israel and and
and Gaza are in and the the parties that
are trying to negotiate with each other
is the question just how to move forward
with regard to any framework to a truce
and what we are hearing right now that
Hamas militants apparently have dropped
one of their key demands and that was so
far that they wanted to have a
commitment by Israel to a permanent
ceasefire before any agreement is being
signed now that demand has been dropped
and now the bull is really in the court
of Israel how they're going to respond
to that how are they going to respond to
ham saying that they ready ready to
negotiate with regard to the release of
Israeli hostages any sense of how
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is looking at the
deal it's really difficult to look into
the political mind to say so prime
minister netan I think it's worth to
mention that so far during the past 10
past nine months as the Gaza is entering
the 10 months today there was only one
week of Truth and that was end of
November last year that ended on
December 1st and prime minister netan
has been very poised to repeat over and
over again that he wants to eliminate
Hamas militants and even though the
intense fighting may be over at some
point soon uh he wants to eliminate even
the remnants of that military of that
militant group and with that in mind
obviously a lot is at stake when it
comes to negotiations and also the
question of trust so even if there's an
agreement can these parties actually
trust each other that have been fighting
each other not only since October 7th
but years and years before that that
that agreement then is going to be
implemented certainly What's Happening
Here in Israel and across the country is
an increasing pressure when it comes to
prime minister netan and his government
that he's not doing enough people say
with regard to trying to release and
secure the release of hostages thousands
of people have been taking to the
streets yesterday and are also taking
the street today they're demanding a
release of the hostages but also they
want to have someone else leading the
war in Gaza they do not trust the Prime
Minister netan and his government are
the right ones in place Fatar in
Jerusalem thank you so much